---
title: "FAQ"
date: 2001-12-01T19:28:08Z
expirydate: 2022-02-01T19:28:08Z
draft: false
disclaimer: represent
---

The Non-Exhaustive "Andrew Kember FAQ"

**Q: So Andrew, what's it all about?**

A: So here I am. Andrew Kember. 23 ¾ years old. And still not sure what possible use a page dedicated to myself could have. Other people, yes, but me? But then again, the argument folds when I consider that you're reading this, so you must be interested in who I am. Well, I wouldn't want to disappoint.
<!--more-->
**Q: Well, okay then, who are you?**

A: I am a Christian, a student, an engineer, a friend, a son, sadly not a boyfriend, a musician, aspiring chart-topping legend #67,450,521.

I'm a student at [University of Bristol](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.bristol.ac.uk/) (UK). I'm studying electrical and electronic engineering. You know, I heard something today. About stress. Writing about my course reminded me of it. I was listening to Philip Jinadu this evening, and he said that stress wasn't caused by pressure, or how busy we are, but by unrealised expectations. So they say, he said. I think he's probably right.

When I worked for a year, after my second year at university, the work was difficult, I rarely knew what I was doing to start with, and there was no shortage of tasks all wanting my attention at once. Perfect conditions for stress, one would think. But I loved it. It was a great challenge – steep learning curves stir the grey matter and make life at work interesting. So many people seem to live for life outside work, and I can see their perspective. Some jobs are only around to make the people who aren't doing them realise how lucky they are! So enjoying my vocation has got to be a pretty big blessing. Truth be told, I couldn't wait to leave Stevenage, but that's just a minor blip in a potentially very rewarding career.

Now I'm back at university, I think I'm under stress. Well, I have unrealised expectations, anyway. One of the Maths lecturers has a quote on his door,

> "Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire."

Well, I don't think I can publish where I'd like to light the fire, but come exam time, I will certainly need the pail!

**Q: So, why no girlfriend then?**

I recently found [this little animation, by Dean Bottino](graphics/faq/crashburn.qt), which is rather amusing. You'll need [QuickTime](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.apple.com/quicktime/) player to view it.

Have you read Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus? Well, I think you should. Very interesting book, that, all about how men and women interpret what the other says differently. Doesn't help one get a girlfriend, but interesting all the same. It's stuff nobody else will teach you, and I think the first few chapters are pretty accurate. Reminds me of Julian Barnes' "History of the World in 10 ½ Chapters":

>"Should love be taught in school? First term: friendship; second term: tenderness; third term: passion. Why not? They teach kids how to cook and mend cars [snip]... but what use is any of that to them if they don't know about love?"

**Q: Why do you believe in God?**

A: Well, from my perspective, it's easy to believe in God's existence, because, remarkably, God and I talk regularly. So for someone like me, who's got a day-to-day friendship with God, He is very real. However, for someone who doesn't know God, it can seem preposterous that He exists, when they don't think they can see or hear Him. It's... how can I put it? A leap of faith? If you're reading this to find out what makes me tick, then this is my *[raison d'être](saviour.html).*

**Q: When is your latest chart-topping single released?**

A: Next week. Always next week.

**Q: What does the Alt Gr key on your keyboard do?**

A: Funny you should ask that. I only just found that out myself. It's equivalent to holding down Ctrl+Alt. So now you know.

**Q: So, what do you do when you're not writing this web page?**

A: Ah. Hobbies and stuff. Yes. Well, I try to break the sad lonely engineer mould now and again.

[Trainspotting](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.imdb.com/)  
[Cheesemaking](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.cheddarcaves.co.uk/)  
[Practical origami projects](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.cs.ruu.nl/~hansb/d.origami/traditional/hat.html)  
[Wickerwork sculpture](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.amydurocher.com/trees.shtml)  
[The history of the bipolar junction transistor](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.cs.caltech.edu/~adam/HUMOR/)

I enjoy playing my guitar, writing songs, learning to play my keyboard. Nothing worth listening to yet, but that's what practise is for.

**Q: What does your marvellous new house look like?**

A: It's [gorgeous](graphics/faq/house.jpg). It has gates.

**Q: So what do you think your friends will make of this FAQ then?**

A: Well, not sure they'll be hugely impressed, but then, to be fair, it's not an exhaustive thing. This is not a true representation of who I am. Certainly not in a very real and legally binding sense. I can't really sue for misrepresentation – I'd never recover the legal costs. Nevertheless, there are lots of really important things missed out here which, if they bug me enough, I'll include. Except the story about the zoo. I'll leave that one out.

**Q: What do you read, Kember?**

A: Where to start? For inspiration and guidance, the bible is simply unbeatable. It took a bit of getting used to when I first started reading it, 'cause there's a lot packed in there. Some bits are really easy to understand, and some bits require prayer, thought, consultation of clever people, and even chocolate-chip cookies.

For light entertainment, I love some of Iain Banks' books. They're truly strange, Some of them have some hauntingly graphic imagery in them (esp. The Wasp Factory), so they're not for the faint-hearted, but he tells a good story.

I can't normally read two of those back to back, so I read a John Grisham novel in between. I've just finished The Street Lawyer – very good. The Brethren is next on the list.

I'd quite like to get into some good crime fiction, but nothing too Hollywood. Ahaa! I'm so glad I've been writing this, because ages ago, I saw a review of a crime novel I thought I might like, but I could only remember the author's Christian name, and in writing this, her surname has just popped into my head: Manda Scott. Her first two books sounded a bit weedy, but the third might be alright. I started reading Almost Night, by Ann Prospero a couple of weeks ago. It started off promisingly enough: Night scene; memories of childhood; a party full of the rich and influential; Gritty reality of waking and dragging oneself into work as a detective, then, oh! Description of police dept. partner, "His dark eyes had black lashes and his mouth was expressive." Hmm. Moving on; Quick! Gruesome murder!; Mobilising the Team who are really good at this sort of thing, interviewing witnesses;..."Strands of her auburn hair strayed over her face and curled around brass earrings" No, no, no. Crime novel, not love story. I understand it doesn't have to be an action packed adventure - Tom Clancy has his place on my bookshelf too, but breaking off the story every third paragraph to sink wistfully into Mills-and-Boon-land is frankly unnecessary. Next!

If you want to see what's on my reading / viewing list at the moment, have a gander at my ~~Amazon.co.uk wish-list~~. Of course, if you're feeling uncustomarily grateful to me for any reason, you can always send me a present!

Here's an email template to make the process easier for you:  
Hi Andrew! It's (insert your name here) here, I've just been looking at your website and I thought it was (insert suitable adjective here).  
As you're such a wonderful guy / amazing friend / tall person / wanted criminal / awesome rockstar / geek (delete as applicable) I've looked through your wish-list and sent you a gift. It's a (insert gift catagory) / surprise (remember, when deleting as applicable, that suspense has been proven to be a major factor in stress-related disorders amongst computer users, [click here to find out more](suspense.html).)  
I hope you like it.

**Q: What *have* you been eating?**

A: Very funny. I like cooking. Very rewarding business. Mostly because it tastes so much better than packet food, although, to be honest, I'm pretty incompetent when it comes to cooking packet food. It almost always ends up smoking or crunchier than it should be.

I've discovered the joys of slow-cooking recently. It's quite an amazing invention for chaps like me who can't multi-task. I can cook the veg. I can cook the pasta. I can cook the sauce as well, but all three at once? Who would make such preposterous demands on my organisational skills? It's for times like that that I learnt the art of panicking. (That's different to picnicking.) So I prepare the ingredients at about 8am, put them in the slow cooker, then serve dinner at about 6.

That's *about* 6. Could be 7. Could be 5. Just whenever the veg / pasta is ready. Very low adrenaline cooking.

I've had a go at the opposite as well: pressure cooking. That's fun. The pressure cooker looks like something out of Star Trek as well, which helps. The idea of pressure cooking is that it cooks stuff under immense pressure which does the biz in a fraction of the time. This does mean, however, that it's all got to be ready at the right time, with only minutes leeway, rather than hours.

One of the best things to do with food is to eat it with friends. Dinner parties are a fantastic invention. A good excuse to dress up and invite lots of people round. I haven't thrown a good dinner party for years – probably have to wait till I'm earning, now. I'm not sure Mum and Dad would be too happy footing the bill for my Bristol dinner parties! I'll have to quiz my friends, find some like-minded individuals and see if we can arrange something.

**Q: Why are there no more questions and answers following this?**

A: While I have never felt any obligation to update this site, I feel somewhat less inclined at the moment as I'm DOING MY FINALS. [I'm caught like a rabbit in the headlights of a truck called "11th May".](https://web.archive.org/web/20050324085016/http://www.cs.bris.ac.uk/~mb8526/)

*Obesa cantavit.*
